Documentation for `subaccount-sync` app (#640)
kyma-project/kyma-environment-broker: docs/contributor/07-20-subaccount-sync.md

# Subaccount Sync

> Subaccount Sync is an application that performs reconciliation tasks on SAP BTP, Kyma runtime, synchronizing Kyma Custom
> Resource labels with subaccount attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subaccount Sync is an application that performs reconciliation tasks on SAP BTP, Kyma runtime, synchronizing Kyma custom
resource (CR) labels with subaccount attributes.
```

## Details

> The `operator.kyma-project.io/beta` labels of all Kyma CRs for given subaccount are synchronized with
> the `Enable beta features` attribute of this subaccount.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `operator.kyma-project.io/beta` label of all Kyma CRs for a given subaccount is synchronized with
the `Enable beta features` attribute of this subaccount.
```

> Current state of the attribute is persisted in the database table `subaccount_states`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current state of the attribute is persisted in the `subaccount_states` database table.
```

> The `Used for production` is monitored as well and the state is persisted in the same table, however it does not affect
> any resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Used for production` is monitored as well and its state is persisted in the same table. However, it does not affect
any resources.
```

| **modified_at**         | BIGINT       | Last modification timestamp as Unix epoch in milliseconds |

The application periodically:

- Fetches data for selected subaccounts from CIS Account service
- Fetches events from CIS Event service for configurable time window
- Monitors Kyma CRs using informer and detects changes in the labels
- Persists the desired (set in CIS) state of the attributes in the database
- Updates the labels of the Kyma CRs if the state of the attributes has changed

## Prerequisites

- The KEB Go packages so that Subaccount Sync can reuse them
- The KEB database for storing current state of selected attributes

## Configuration

The application is defined as a Kubernetes deployment.

Use the following environment variables to configure the application:

| Environment variable                                       | Description                                                                                                               | Default value |
|------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|

> | **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_KYMA_VERSION**                           | Specifies current Kyma version to get proper Kyma Custom Resource Definition.                                             | `false`       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_KYMA_VERSION**                           | Specifies current Kyma version to get proper Kyma Custom Resource Definition (CRD).                                             | `false`       |
```

> | **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_METRICS_PORT**                           | Specifies port where metrics are exposed for scrapion.                                                                    | `8081`        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_METRICS_PORT**                           | Specifies port where metrics are exposed for scraping.                                                                    | `8081`        |
```

> | **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_UPDATE_RESOURCES**                       | Specifies whether to run the updater process which updates Kyma Custom Resources.                                         | `false`       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_UPDATE_RESOURCES**                       | Specifies whether to run the updater process which updates Kyma CR.                                         | `false`       |
```

| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_LOG_LEVEL**                              | Specifies log level.                                                                                                      | `info`        |
| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_ACCOUNTS_SYNC_INTERVAL**                 | Specifies at what intervals subaccounts data is fetched.                                                                  | `24h`         |

> | **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_STORAGE_SYNC_INTERVAL**                  | Specifies at what intervals subaccount states are persisted in database.                                                  | `2m`          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_STORAGE_SYNC_INTERVAL**                  | Specifies at what intervals subaccount states are persisted in the database.                                                  | `2m`          |
```

| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_EVENTS_WINDOW_SIZE**                     | Specifies size of events window.                                                                                          | `20m`         |
| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_EVENTS_WINDOW_INTERVAL**                 | Specifies at what intervals we fetch events.                                                                              | `15m`         |
| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_QUEUE_SLEEP_INTERVAL**                   | Specifies how long the updater sleeps if queue is empty.                                                                  | `30s`         |

> | **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_CIS_EVENTS_CLIENT_ID**                   | Specifies the CLIENT_ID for client accessing events.                                                                      |               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_CIS_EVENTS_CLIENT_ID**                   | Specifies the **CLIENT_ID** for client accessing events.                                                                      |               |
```

> | **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_CIS_EVENTS_CLIENT_SECRET**               | Specifies the CLIENT_SECRET for client accessing events.                                                                  |               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_CIS_EVENTS_CLIENT_SECRET**               | Specifies the **CLIENT_SECRET** for the client accessing events.                                                                  |               |
```

| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_CIS_EVENTS_AUTH_URL**                    | Specifies the authorization URL for events endpoint.                                                                      |               |
| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_CIS_EVENTS_SERVICE_URL**                 | Specifies the URL for events endpoint.                                                                                    |               |
| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_CIS_EVENTS_RATE_LIMITING_INTERVAL**      | Specifies the rate limiting interval for events endpoint.                                                                 | `2s`          |
| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_CIS_EVENTS_MAX_REQUESTS_PER_INTERVAL**   | Specifies the number of allowed requests per interval for events endpoint.                                                | 5             |

> | **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_CIS_ACCOUNTS_CLIENT_ID**                 | Specifies the CLIENT_ID for client accessing accounts.                                                                    |               |
> | **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_CIS_ACCOUNTS_CLIENT_SECRET**             | Specifies the CLIENT_SECRET for client accessing accounts.                                                                |               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_CIS_ACCOUNTS_CLIENT_ID**                 | Specifies the **CLIENT_ID** for the client accessing accounts.                                                                    |               |
| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_CIS_ACCOUNTS_CLIENT_SECRET**             | Specifies the **CLIENT_SECRET** for the client accessing accounts.                                                                |               |
```

| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_DATABASE_HOST**                          | Specifies the host of the database.                                                                                       | `localhost`   |
| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_DATABASE_PORT**                          | Specifies the port for the database.                                                                                      | `5432`        |
| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_DATABASE_NAME**                          | Specifies the name of the database.                                                                                       | `broker`      |
| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_DATABASE_SSLMODE**                       | Activates the SSL mode for PostgreSQL. See [all the possible values](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.1/libpq-ssl.html). | `disable`     |
| **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_DATABASE_SSLROOTCERT**                   | Specifies the location of CA cert of PostgreSQL. (Optional)                                                               | optional      |

> ### Dry Run mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Dry Run Mode
```

> The dry run mode does not perform any changes on the control plane. Setting `SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_UPDATE_RESOURCES` to false
> will run the application in dry run mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dry run mode does not perform any changes on the control plane. Setting **SUBACCOUNT_SYNC_UPDATE_RESOURCES** to `false` runs the application in dry run mode.
```

> Updater would not be created and no changes would be made to the Kyma Custom Resources. The application will only fetch
> data from CIS and update the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updater is not created and no changes are made to the Kyma CRs. The application only fetches
data from CIS and updates the database.
```

> Differences between the desired and current state of the attributes will cause queue to be filled with entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Differences between the desired and current state of the attributes cause that the queue is filled with entries.
```

> Since this is augmented queue with one entry for each subaccount, the length will not exceed the number of subaccounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since this is an augmented queue with one entry for each subaccount, the length does not exceed the number of subaccounts.
```
